MIRACL is a highly efficient and portable Multiprecision Integer and Rational 
Arithmetic C/C++ Library. Full source code is provided. Its main area of 
application is in the implementation of Public Key Cryptography systems and
protocols. Many example programs are provide. 

The MIRACL library can be used freely for Academic, non-profit making or 
non-commercial use. Commercial Users must register.

The term "commercial use" means any for-profit use of the MIRACL library.
Any commercial use of MIRACL requires a license which may be obtained from
Shamus Software Ltd

Single user license 1,000 euro for first developer/workstation.
Per additional user 500 euro
Server license 5,000
Updates are free.

LICENSE TYPES

Single user license
MIRACL is installed and used on one single machine, which may not be used as
a server.

Server license
MIRACL is installed and used on one server machine and there is no limit on
the number of clients.

When buying any kind of license, you have the right to install and to
develop your own programs using MIRACL. You are also allowed to sell the
binaries of your own programs that have been compiled using MIRACL. There
are no runtime royalties. All licenses are non-exclusive.
If you sell software that was developed using MIRACL, there is no
requirement to cite MIRACL.

Redistributing your copy of MIRACL to a third party is not allowed.
A commercial license for the installation and use of MIRACL is always given
for one machine. Installing or copying the software to another machine is
not allowed.

For more information contact mscott@indigo.ie .


Some Public-Domain sources and executables that use the MIRACL library
are also included in this package.

The address for correspondence is:- 

Shamus Software Ltd,
4 Foster Place Notrth,
Ballybough
Dublin 3
Ireland

Contact: Michael Scott
Phone (353) 1 7045537
FAX   (353) 1 7045442
EMAIL mscott@indigo.ie

To access the software, download the file miracl.zip.
The latest version can always be obtained from 
ftp://ftp.computing.dcu.ie/pub/crypto/miracl.zip
To decompress into an MSDOS directory MIRACL, execute the command 

pkunzip -d miracl

This creates a suitable sub-directory structure within the MIRACL directory.


If using MS Visual C++ on a PC, read msvisual.txt

If using Linux, read linux.txt


The manual is supplied in PostScript format, in MANUAL.ZIP (available from 
the download site), and in MS WordFormat as MANUAL.DOC

Latest Version - V4.7  Last updated December 2002


